# Rule Based Testing Framework for Java

### VERSION: Basic Prototype

This framework aims to enable developers to test their programs without needing to fully understand Java code syntax.
A controller class reads rules from a test suite class and assembles the required code. A secondary testing controller class executes the tests and records the results.

## Current Features

- Parsable rules include:
  - Static public fields or method calls
  - Storage of field values and method return values in self-defined or auto-generated variables with primitive and String types able to be declared.
  - Variables can also be assigned constant values such as primitive constants or user defined strings
  - Expectations for primitive and String values
- Controller reads rules and constructs test suites, then executes the generated test suites
- Test results and compilation errors are recorded in dedicated log files.

## Installation

Current release is only a Basic Prototype so there is currently no JAR available.

To install:
1. Download JAR file from this repository or clone it
2. Run the JAR from command line using the command:
`java -jar JavaRuleBasedTesting.jar <path to src folder of the project>(optional)`
3. Alternatively, add the JAR as an external library (eg: in IntelliJ or Eclipse IDEs)

## Usage

Runner is the main entrypoint into the program and will both generate and run the test suites.
TestExecutor can also be used for any previously generated or user defined test suites.

### Defining Rules

Rules can be defined simply, by either creating a method within the test case that returns the full set of rules or as a static instance variable containing the rules.

Method returning a string of rules (separated by `\n`):  
`public static String getRule() { return "<Rule Contents>"; }`


Instance variable containing the rules:  
`public static String rule = "<Rule Contents>";`

*NB: rules can be extracted using a String array type as well.*

### Available Rules

- `Call <method name> (with arguments): <list of arguments>`
- `Call <method name>`
- `Get <method or field name>`
- `Store <method or field name> in <variable name>`
- `Store <contant or string> in <variable name>`
- `Expect <variable name> to (not) <comparator> <expected value>`

Expectations are used to determine if a test passes or fails. Errors and failures found are recorded in the TestResults.log file.

## Notes

Test classes containing rules must be stored in a `src/test/java` directory within the project. Java classes to be tested must be stored in a `src/main/java` directory.

Test suites that don't contain any rules and thus only require executing should be stored in a directory named 'generated' within the testing directory. Test suites generated by the program are also stored in the 'generated' directory.

Currently, the test suites cannot contain tests written using other libraries (eg: JUnit), as these cause problems when compiling Java files.